[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hi, I'm Lisa Garr, host
of "Gaiam Inspirations."
We're coming to you live
from the Gaiam studios
in Boulder, Colorado.
And since it's a live
interactive show,
I encourage you to
communicate with us
through Facebook and Twitter.
Many of you already are.
So keep the comments
and questions
coming throughout the show.
According to my guests
today, visionary
futurist Barbara Marx
Hubbard, we're facing
a historic turning point.
We're evolving from
an unconscious chance
to conscious choice.
We're entering into what
Barbara calls the First
Age of Conscious Evolution.
However, in order for
something new to start,
quite often something
old needs to fall apart.
And this is something many
people are experiencing today.
And one of the greatest ways
to move through this shift
is to start a new conversation,
to move humanity from one
phase of evolution to the next.
Barbara has authored
seven acclaimed books
that communicate a new world
view of conscious evolution.
And she's joining us
here today to share
her massive inspiration.
Welcome, to the show.
Thank you, Lisa.
I'm really happy to be he.
It is our true honor.
And I am so grateful
that you're here.
So talk to us about this
critical tipping point.
You talk about facing either
extinction or evolution.
What do you mean by that?
Well, it's obvious we
can't keep over growing
in a finite planet.
And our crisis is literally
an evolutionary driver
toward either destruction
of our environment
or an evolution of our species.
And I believe conscious
evolution is becoming conscious
that we can affect
our own future
and then acting by
choice positively.
So conscious evolution,
what specifically
is-- break that down for
me, conscious evolution.
We are aware of evolution.
We can look back and see
billions of years that it took.
We are aware.
We are affecting our own
evolution by everything we do,
the babies we have, the food
we eat, the cars we drive.
We're also aware
that our behavior
could destroy our civilization
and our environment.
So conscious evolution is
saying I'm willing to be aware
that this is a design
that I could help create,
that my thoughts, my
actions, my choices
are going to make the
difference for this world.
Which they are.
Now, you started
off as a homemaker.
And you're now a
visionary futurist.
What was your journey like?
Well, it really
started for me in 1945
when the United States dropped
the first bombs on Japan.
I was 15 years old in 1945.
And I always thought everything
was going for the good.
But suddenly, I saw that we
could misuse that great power
and destroy our species.
So I asked a question,
what's the meaning
of the new power--
science, technology,
industry-- that's good?
Were you raised with a kind
of an idealistic point of view?
No, my father was a toymaker.
It was materialistic, secular,
competitive New York business.
LISA GARR: Interesting,
interesting.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD: How
he got me, I don't know.
Well you arose
from that lifestyle,
from that upbringing,
to being someone
who holds answer questions,
very, very strong questions.
And you follow them through.
You had an incident
where you, I guess,
you wound up in the Oval Office
because of your father, right?
Well, I did.
And it was that
sense of hope that I
got from that
entrepreneurial spirit.
And my father once gave
a toy train to a general
in the Air Force, got to
know all the generals.
And they became godfathers
of my half brothers.
So one day in 1952, I was
invited to the Oval Office
just to say hello to
President Eisenhower.
LISA GARR: Oh, my
goodness, you found
yourself with a lot
of different generals
and in an incredible place.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD:
So Eisenhower would
just say, hello, young lady.
How are you?
It was a courtesy call.
So I said, Mr. President,
I have a question for you.
Yes, what is it?
What do you think is the
meaning of our new power
of science, technology, industry
in the military that's good?
You asked him that?
And he stared at me and
shook his head and he said,
I have no idea.
And I thought, well,
we better find out.
So you have the
president at the time
what is the meaning of
all of our new power
and he didn't know.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD:
He had no idea.
He hadn't thought of it.
And as I started to research,
science, and philosophy,
and religion, and
academic world,
I found we did not have
any vision of our future
that we want to work
toward equal to our power
to destroy or create.
So you started to follow
this question through it,
didn't you?
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD: I did.
And where did that lead you?
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD:
Well, it lead me right here
to the awareness that
the crisis we're facing
is potentially the
birth of what I'm
calling a co-creative humanity.
It would be a humanity in which
each person is free to express
that creativity, to give their
gift to the larger world,
to realize potential,
and to connect
to create a better world.
That's the meaning of our power.
And so then you wound
up going to NASA.
You wound up going
to different places.
Your theme, your through line
has been this exact same thing
to really affect
evolution, to make
a huge difference with our
conversation, isn't it?
Well, when I started
to ask these questions
there was no discipline, no
field, no subject at Bryn
Mawr College, where I went.
So eventually I became
what's called a futurist.
LISA GARR: What did
you study in college?
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD: I
studied political science
because I didn't know what
my deeper purpose was.
LISA GARR: But you
learned the current story.
You learned--
I learned a lot about
the current story.
I went to Paris my junior year.
I met my husband in a little
cafe on the left bank.
And I asked him my
question, what's
the meaning of our new power?
What do you think it is?
And he said, I'm an artist.
And I'm seeking a new
story, a new image
commensurate with our power.
And I thought, I'm
going to marry you.
And I did.
LISA GARR: And you did.
I got married on the quest
for what is the story,
what is the direction, and
how are we going to find it?
And I realized in a way,
it's an art form because it's
not written down somewhere.
We have to seek it out.
So when I asked you
the question of how
did you go from being a
homemaker to a futurist,
you always have been a futurist.
I got married.
And my husband was an artist.
And Of course, I
had five children.
In the meantime, that happened.
From the 1951 to about
1970, I was a full-time mom.
And I sort of lost the question.
LISA GARR: You were
doing something else.
I was having babies.
And every baby was yet
another wonderful being.
So the question would
deepen with each child,
because if you didn't
know the direction
of the future for
yourself, how could you
really educate your children?
And that was before
we really got
this sense that the
future was negative
and might be very much worse.
But even then, I could see
I wanted my children to know
that there was something for
them to do that was important,
that was great.
Absolutely, so as you
were raising your children,
you continued this conversation
going throughout your child
rearing years.
-I did.
And when I realized
that I had, let's
say, a calling, a
vocation to tell
the story of this larger birth.
When I told my children
that their mom had
to go tell this story
of the positive future,
my nine-year-old
son said to me, mom,
you're doing what
mothers should.
You're helping to
create a better
future for your children.
LISA GARR: Oh, my goodness.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD: And
I know that you love us.
So I was a mom that
shifted from full-time mom
to what I would call
evolutionary woman.
But I brought all
my children with me.
And that's one reason I love
the nine-year-old so much,
because my nine-year-old
son, in a way,
made me realize it was
good for the children.
See, this is a great question,
because it's actually lighting
up-- people on Facebook,
they're saying,
from running from
doing paying the bills
and going to the soccer games,
how do I get my children
in this conversation?
Enrolled in this conversation?
And that's exactly
how you do it.
It's all the same thing.
It's not separate.
That's the bottom line.
The children innately
have a sense of the future
now much more than in the
'70s, because obviously
they're watching TV.
They're on their iPads.
LISA GARR: Much more
connected, of course.
Those children at
nine now, many of them
know more than the older
ones, because they're
in the new world.
And they're connected to
the world nervous system,
which is internet.
They're connected now.
-Amazing.
So then you had this
incredible vision.
You went to go buy a
space shuttle, didn't you?
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD:
Well, that's not quite--
what happened was during
the American Apollo program,
when I saw those rockets go
off, I had this deep sense
that it was like the fish
coming out of the sea
onto the dry land.
Our species was
leaving its biosphere.
And it was going to
land on a new world.
And I immediately saw that
our future is going to be new
and that our new technologies,
like the space program,
were part of a
species that was going
to be actually a solar
system species and eventually
a galactic species.
And I became so
interested in this
that I founded the Committee
for the Future in Washington DC.
And I started to bring together
futurists from every field,
from health, from education,
from economics, to say
what is the positive future.
LISA GARR: At what year
was this that you started--
1970.
My goodness, you started
to have these conversations.
And a filmmaker,
actually, came to us
when we were just
founding the Future,
the Committee for the Future.
And he said, why
don't you sponsor
a citizen-sponsored
space mission to the moon
and bring back lunar
materials and involve
the people of the world
in exploring a new world?
And it was such a good idea that
the Committee for the Future
said, all right.
And we had astronauts
who said yes.
I went to Cartier and I
said, what would you pay
for 400 pounds of moon rock?
They said $400 million.
So we had enough money to
actually rent a rocket soon.
LISA GARR: This is an
unbelievable story.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD:
So we went to NASA
and asked Wernher von
Braun if the people
could rent a Saturn V rocket.
And he was totally stunned.
He said, well, I
don't see why not.
So he took me into
the place where
they had these great symbols
of the lift of humanity.
And I took out my lipstick
and I wrote on one of them,
"The People's Rocket."
Oh, my god.
I wish I had a picture of that.
Oh, my goodness.
Eventually NASA wouldn't
let us do it because they
said it wasn't scientific.
But actually, we were going
to do a little experiment
on what would grow on the moon.
We called it Project
Harvest Moon.
So with that, I became
truly a pioneering woman.
Well, absolutely I would
say so in an entrepreneur
at heart because you were able
to broker this whole deal.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD: I'm
known as one of the first space
entrepreneurs.
It's too funny.
Well, I appreciate you
sharing your story with us,
because these are stories that
make such a big difference.
And then you wound
up running as a vice
presidential candidate in 1984.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD: I did.
And I want to tell you when
I realized that our story was
part of the universe story--
I call it a crisis of birth
of a co-creative,
co-evolving humanity--
everything I did was about
how to tell the bigger story.
So actually the Saturn
V rocket was in order
to tell the story that
we're going to be able to be
a solar system species.
Running for vice president
was not because I was going
to be a full time politician.
But Buckminster Fuller,
he made the geodesic dome.
He said, space ship Earth came
without an operating manual.
And he said to me, women
should go into politics to
present options for the future.
And Barbara, you should
run for president.
Oh, so he was the
influence behind this.
I decided to do what in
America is very typical,
an idea candidacy.
And I called it "Campaign
for a Positive Future."
And I had a great idea that the
vice president should create
a new function to map, track,
and connect, and communicate
what's working in America.
LISA GARR: In 1984.
Yes.
I want around the country.
Positive Future Centers formed.
I went to the Democratic
National Convention
with no money, no media,
and no passes to the floor.
I got into the governor's wife
of Colorado-- interesting.
And I went to these early
morning caucuses and said,
I'm Barbara Hubbard.
I'm running for vice
president to find
out what works in America.
And I got over 200 delegates,
more than anybody else,
except Geraldine Ferraro, and I
was the other woman nominated.
And I want to say the importance
here is if you have a vision,
like I had a vision
that our crisis is
the birth of something new.
And I stayed with it every
step of the way, whether it be
the NASA rockets or
running for vice president
or what I'm doing now, I ask
all visionaries, stay with it.
And do the work.
I mean, you got into the field.
You explored.
You asked the questions.
You were ferociously curious.
You don't stop.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD:
I don't stop.
And it's amazing that you
demonstrate the reality of what
your vision.
And this goes back to
conscious evolution.
You and I are evolution.
We are the universe in person.
That give me chills
when you say that.
The universe always wants
more consciousness, more life.
You can see from the billions
of years of evolution.
So when you and I or
any of the listeners
want more expression
of their own vision,
that's the universe wanting it.
It's not just your own
little private story.
We have footage of the speech
that Barbara gave at the 1984
Democratic National Convention.
It is a very similar
story to today.
Take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
The theme of my campaign is to
fulfill the dream, a campaign
for a positive future.
In 1776, our forbearers freed
the individual from the tyranny
of the divine right of kings.
They stated the
self-evident truth
that all men are
created equal when there
was no equality in the world.
There were kings and subjects,
classes and races, sexism.
Yet the power of the word
of truth changed the world.
In 1984, we face a tyranny
far greater than King George.
And we are seeking a
freedom even greater
than that of the individual.
The tyranny we face is the
threat of the extinction
of the human race.
And the freedom we seek
is the emancipation
of the genius of the
human race to fulfill
our highest potential.
In 1984, we must state
the new self-evident truth
from the point of power of
the American presidency.
And the power of this word will
transform the world once again.
The new truth is that
we are one planet.
We are one peoples of the Earth.
And we will live and die
together for evermore.
It is now in our capacity to
destroy civilization as we know
it, or to build a world of
unprecedented opportunity
for all people.
[END PLAYBACK]
How do you feel watching
that conversation
20 some odd years ago?
I feel grateful that I said
yes to that impulse inside me
to tell the grader story.
And now when I see it,
I realize I was right.
LISA GARR: Absolutely,
it's the same conversation
that we are having now.
It's the same conversation
that people sit in that chair
and say the same thing
you were saying in 1984.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD: So
the real story for anybody
is when you say yes
to the impulse in you
to express that that yes
is conscious evolution.
LISA GARR: It's beautiful.
I mean what you have created
and throughout your story,
I see the evolution of where you
have come and where we are now.
So let's talk about that
conversation you were having
in that video on that pulpit.
You were talking about
creating a new humanity.
I also need to know why are we
having this same conversation
28 years later.
Well, I think that the
crisis of overpopulation,
pollution, destruction of the
environment has increased.
And now we are aware
of global warming.
We are aware of
financial difficulties.
We are aware of terrorism.
So all of those
awarenesses is in the news
constantly telling people
that things aren't working.
Therefore, the need to know what
is working and what is emerging
is greater than ever before.
-It is.
But then what are some
of-- I mean, we know this.
We have this awareness.
It's all over the place.
But what are the answers?
What are the steps?
What are the solutions?
I feel that the way
we're going to know
is by identifying
what's working.
New health care, what
Gaiam is doing in health.
All of these things, what
are new spirituality is.
Where we're bringing the
inner essence of spirit
in every one of us.
What are the new
economics where we're
looking for
alternative currencies
and economic democracy?
What are the new
possibilities in governance,
of co-operative management?
And when you look
for innovations--
I think of it as a wheel
of co-creation-- in all
the organic
functions, you'll find
there's enough that's working
if it were known and connected.
So I think what we need
to do in 2012 and beyond
is start a global
communication of what's
working and connected.
It's exactly what I ran
for vice president for.
Well, there are a lot of
conversations happening.
There's a lot of small hubs of
conversations and organizations
that are having
this conversation.
But I don't see that
they are connected.
They're not connected.
And they're not
considered the new news.
And I am calling for a new
interpretation of the news--
not what's breaking
down, but what's
breaking through, in
such a way that you
see it's a whole system.
Let's say we have a
whole system breaking
down in environment, in
economics, in health,
and so forth--
-We hear a lot about that, yes.
We have a whole system
breaking through.
Now, that's what
isn't known, even
though we might know separate
things that might be working.
LISA GARR: So what
is it specifically?
What's breaking through?
What is the good news?
I would say the good news
is that we are being born
as a co-evolutionary,
co-creative species in which
every single person
actually has a creative gift
that as we say yes
to that, we can
evolve ourselves personally.
We can evolve the world.
And when we connect,
I believe we
have the technology and
resources to make a world
that works for everyone.
I think we can explore
our solar system.
I think we can evolve
our spirituality.
I think we probably will find
we're in a universe filled
with life, and
that our crisis is
the birth not only of
a co-created species
but of a universal humanity.
So if you look at little planet
Earth, like the astronauts did,
you'll see it's a living system.
It's alive.
The astronaut saw the
geographical Earth.
But we're seeing now the people,
the systems, and the connecting
of the thinking layer through
Facebook, Twitter, Gaiam
TV, such that here's my vision.
That there's enough input
into that collective nervous
communication system,
like the nervous system
of a newborn baby.
It doesn't know it's been born.
It needs its mother's love.
It goes against the loving
heart of the mother.
It hears that heartbeat.
And its nervous system links up.
It opens its eyes and smiles.
I see that this nervous
system, now filled
with so many inspirations,
so many projects that work,
if we have it as the new
news, which I want to do--
that's my mission now is to
tell the new news of our birth
as a universal
species and invite
everybody who has
something that's
working to tell their story.
So as I said earlier, that
the way out of this the shift
and the pain that people maybe
are experiencing right now
is this a new evolution
and that we're
in the first phase of this.
Now you would think where we
are in evolution right now,
we wouldn't be in a
first phase of anything.
But you're saying that we are.
Yes, we're the first phase of
a species that could destroy
its own environment
and knows it,
and that could evolve its
own, not only environment,
personal, social,
technological, such
that we could
transcend what we've
known as the human existence.
We have gained powers we
used to attribute to gods.
So I feel symbolically
that we have
to recognize that the
design of creation
is to create people who are
co-creators with the process
of creation.
We're meant to have this power.
But it won't be guided from
the existing structures
of global corporations,
existing organized religions,
top down structures.
Who is it going to be guided by?
The people who are
connecting like you and me.
We're not the head
of a nation state.
We're not the head of
a global corporation.
Who are we?
We're the people.
Who is listening to this?
The people.
Those are the ones.
We have the internet.
And Birth 2012, December 22,
2012 is being designed as a day
to celebrate what's working.
So December 22, that the
day after the alleged date
of December 21, Birth 2012,
what do you mean by that?
What I mean is that it's
time to celebrate everything
that can that we feel is working
toward a more positive future.
It's a time on a planetary scale
to connect through the heart.
We're calling it
Heart Coherence.
And it is said that if 350,000
people simultaneously felt love
in their heart for each
other and for all species
and for the planet--
At the same time?
At the same time,
it would shift
that consciousness of Earth.
And for me Birth 2012, and
beyond-- but just take it
as a marker-- is a time to
connect through the heart,
to celebrate what works, and
to have a shared intention
of a consciousness shift
on planet Earth in time
to save us from
more destruction.
So this conversation is
obviously already happening.
This is happening now.
It'll happen beyond
the December date.
This conversation
is in play right
now, this new conversation.
The new conversation
is in play.
But because the mass
media and the news system
and the existing
political system
doesn't pick up the
news of what's emerging.
Well, actually, it
shows that there's
more opposing forces than ever.
I mean, do you think that
it's become even more apparent
that the news and
the devastation
is getting louder as this
conversation gets louder?
In some respects, the
purpose of getting all of that
break down news is to awaken.
But we have to be
careful not to become
so disappointed or
fearful that we don't
listen to that inner impulse.
And what I have
learned personally
from being a mother of five
and going through all of this
is when you have what I call
vocational arousal, when
something excites you to
express, instead of saying,
well, I don't think
I'm good enough,
say, yes, knowing it's the
impulse of evolution in you.
And when anyone, but
particularly a woman,
says yes to that impulse,
as she gets older, 50, 60,
70-- I'm 82-- when she
gets older and says,
yes, instead of aging and losing
vitality, what's happening
is we're awakening to more
creativity and so are the men.
They are no longer needing to
be in a dominator position,
men start tuning in to their
essence, to their creativity.
And that's the new partnership.
This is the new partnership.
This is conscious evolution.
This is what it means to
be an evolutionary human.
We're going to
take a quick break
and be right back with
Barbara Marx Hubbard.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Welcome back to
"Gaiam Inspirations."
I'm Lisa Garr.
And my guest is visionary
futurist Barbara Marx Hubbard.
And we're talking about
creating a new worldview
of conscious evolution.
One of the things I'm really
sensitive to is making sure
that this conversation
applies to everyone,
is a practical conversation,
and as big and as large
as the conversation
can be, and is
necessary about
conscious evolution and
our whole evolutionary story.
I want to find out how it
relates to people when they're
hitting massive
depression or where
they're lost about a purpose in
life or financial devastation.
How does that apply?
Well, I just like
to tell you what
happened to me, because
when I had up to about
my fourth child, I was OK.
This is 1951.
And it was the era of the
woman who you get married,
you have babies, you take care
of your house and your husband.
And I did it with great
joy, actually, until I
started to get depressed.
And at that time,
in the late '50s,
the depression was
considered neurotic.
And I went to a psychiatrist.
He said, well, you're
obviously what's wrong.
Then I read Betty Friedan.
And I found out that
thousands of women
had something-- what was it?
It was a loss of identity.
Yes, we were wife and mother.
But there was more.
And then I read Abraham Maslow.
And he said, every
joyful, creative person
has one thing in
common-- something
that they feel called to do,
life purpose, chosen vocation.
That when they do it, they're
self-rewarded and of service.
And so I began to look
for a life purpose
that would include my children.
But I was only 29 or 30.
Instead of being at the
end, I was at the beginning.
And so I took the depression
as a signaled something more
to be expressed.
LISA GARR: So where
did you start?
Where did you start looking
for that bigger conversation?
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD:
I started to look
because of a reading
Abraham Maslow--
anything that attracted me.
And so I began to
do in my reading,
I was attracted to,
actually, Abraham Maslow.
And so what I did
is I called him
up and invited him for lunch.
Himself?
Himself.
What's the hierarchy
of needs mean?
My goodness.
Thank you.
See this is what-- I was bold.
So when you get this depression,
you have to ask yourself,
what glimmer of
something attracts you?
It could be an organization.
It could be a book.
It could be some
kind of activity.
You start to move toward it.
And that takes courage.
LISA GARR: What did
Abraham Maslow say to you?
BARBARA MARX
HUBBARD: He said yes.
He said yes.
I said, you have saved
my life, because I
realized I'm not neurotic.
I'm just an under expressed.
So we had lunch
together in New York.
And I told him all my problems.
And he said, no, Barbara,
you represent life.
I will give you the names
of 300 people I've collected
over the years-- all of whom
he called the good souls,
you psychic.
This is what happens
if you say yes.
I then decided to write
a letter to 300 people.
My question was, what do
you think is the next step
for the future good?
So after Maslow
gave me these names,
I wrote a letter to them.
What do you think is the next
step for the future good?
People like Thomas Merton
and Jonas Salk and others.
And some of the wrote back.
And I then called them up.
So my path was to take
depression as a signal
and look for life purpose.
And I think as you get
beyond your very early years,
the discovery of
that impulse in you,
that's your own creativity.
So you say yes to it.
Yes, this is one
of the questions
coming in from Facebook.
Is Diana is saying,
where do I find my yes?
You actually go within and
feel what attracts you to give.
It's not the secret of
what you want to get.
It's the secret of
what you want to give.
That is so important,
so important.
The gift of giving out of your
creativity is what grows you.
LISA GARR: Is that
what a future human?
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD: Yes.
And the more you
say yes to giving,
what your creativity
is, the more
you are nourished by giving it.
It's the way the design is.
And I consider it the next
step after having babies.
Yes.
It is the identifying
of the gift,
particularly in
the feminine, whose
body is able to create a baby--
It's another kind of birth.
She's able to give
birth to that authentic,
creative, feminine self.
LISA GARR: It's interesting,
because when we met today,
I said, how are you?
And we've been really
sensitive to the conversation
of answering that
with crazy busy,
because we don't want to
identify with that any longer.
But the minute I got in the
car and said, how are you?
You turned to me and
you said, engaged.
That was beautiful.
And what I've discovered, Lisa,
is that when you're engaged
and you're older,
the energy in you
starts to be
activated by this yes.
And I've coined a new word
for women over 50 who say yes.
It's regenopause.
You have menopause,
no more eggs.
Then you are the egg.
You are giving birth.
Yes.
And if you say yes, the
yes seems to open up.
It doesn't close down
when you get older.
What a great story.
I mean, the way you came
from with just asking
the right questions and you
have really no fear in going
to people and saying,
here's my question
and will you answer it.
And you follow through
and follow through.
What an amazing story of you
went to NASA and asked that.
Now you fast forward
to now, here,
where you're sitting here as
a visionary futurists, who
has held the space for us
for so long about a conscious
evolution and spoken about
it in many, many platforms
around the world-- there's
actually a clip that we have
here that I want you to see.
It's from a movie that you
created called "Vision."
And the production company is
called Quantum Productions.
Take a look at this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
BARBARA MARX
HUBBARD (VOICEOVER):
One day I was taking a walk
in the hills above my home.
I've been doing a lot of
reading about the great mystics
and spiritual teachers of
the past in relationship
to a positive
future for humanity.
But I couldn't quite bring
all of my thoughts together.
Frustrated, I suddenly
stopped and posed
a question to the universe.
What is humanity's new story?
The universe responded.
I had an expanded
reality experience.
I pierced the blue
cocoon of Earth
as our astronauts had
done and found myself
floating weightlessly in space.
I had become a universal
being, capable of seeing
and comprehending
humanity's role
within the entire cosmic story.
In a flash, I was
catapulted into the future.
And I could see a few frames
ahead of the movie of creation.
I was aware of myself as
a member of planet Earth.
I saw that we were
running out of energy
and gasping for breath.
I could feel the pain running
through the whole planetary
body.
This shared feeling of
pain opened our hearts.
Love poured through
our nervous systems.
We experienced mass
moments, a higher
harmonic of consciousness.
The airs cleared.
The waters became
pristine again.
As the mass resonance increase,
the systems of our social body
seemed to join together
as never before.
I felt every basic
social system shift
simultaneously as innovations
and breakthroughs connected.
Systems of health and education,
economics and environment
began to coalesce
seamlessly by the same power
that orchestrated the
creation of the universe.
We were be coordinated.
Then I heard the
words, our story
is the birth of new humanity.
We are all members
of one, living,
planetary body, the offspring of
a greater cosmic intelligence,
predestined to explore
the further reaches
of our infinite universe.
That was 40 years ago.
And it awoke in me the
impulse to discover
how this possibility
might actually be true.
So I began to research what do
we know that makes it possible
for us to be
connected as one body,
to be born towards our
next stage of evolution.
And I've invited some of the
great visionaries of our time
that I have found
over these 40 years
to help us see the truth, the
realistic possibilities of us
becoming a co-creative
universal humanity.
Envisions we're going
to piece together
the new story, the new vision.
And we're going to go where
humans have never gone before.
[END PLAYBACK]
And that's what
we're doing today
absolutely is creating
these conversations.
It all starts with a
conversation like this
and then spark so many
different conversations.
So in your book, "The
Birth 2012" book,
you talk about tools,
specific tools for becoming
an evolutionary human.
What are some of those?
Well, let's say you get
turned on by the big yes.
And you are still the soccer
mom or you're in a job
that you may not like so much.
What are you going to do?
OK, well, the first thing is
you say yes to that attraction
and you reach out.
But as you start finding
what attracts you,
there are some really
important practices.
And the first one is really
the practice of HeartMath.
And they have just
taught the simplest thing
of putting your
hand over your heart
and thinking of what you
appreciate, feeling it.
So the first practice is
feeling love and appreciation.
And what that does is it
makes your nervous system
from your heart intelligence and
your brain intelligence to be
related and you get wiser.
And you get to be
attracted to others.
HeartMath.
The second practice,
we're calling
the shift from your egoic, local
self-identity to your essence.
Your essence is
your true nature.
It's the spirit within.
And in my own case,
Lisa, I always
projected that essence
onto a higher self and then
to the Christ.
And I wrote in my journal.
And when I wrote about that
I felt so good, so whole.
But then I'd go
out to do it, and I
didn't stay with that feeling
of wholeness and peace.
So it wouldn't work?
So it wouldn't work.
So this is what I recommend.
Take some morning time.
And put your attention,
whatever and however
it happens for you, on the
higher experience of spirit
that you have.
And when you put
your attention on it,
the spirit starts to
come into your own heart
and it activates
your own creativity.
And the poor little local self,
who's out there making things
work and earning a living
and getting things done,
starts to come in to
this inner sanctuary.
And the practice is to
stay in the experience
of your own true
nature long enough
for the local self to fall
in love with its own essence.
Is that how you
create the miracles
that you create in your life?
Is that how you do
manifesting things?
What I'm really saying is
to become a universal human,
as part of this
universal humanity,
you need to shift
into your heart,
and to then feel your own
essence, your own spirituality
coming in.
And I call this the birth
of the universal human.
When you're an infant,
you forget all the time.
But in your morning
meditation, just remember it,
bring local self in.
And then gradually
you're a child.
You have to learn to
see that self in others.
But then when you go out
and you confront others
who don't have that same energy,
and who have maybe and more
of a negative and
doubting type of presence,
how do you communicate
that message?
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD:
So the next thing
is I really think you need to
find at least one other person,
OK, two or more are
gathered, in resonance,
where, like you and I.
I am resounding.
I can feel your own essence.
You are feeling my essence.
The resonance between the
two of us allows more of this
to come out.
Then let's say we
had to go to a place
where there was no resonance.
We could at least
return to this.
Right, right.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD:
And I say to people
don't try to do this all alone.
LISA GARR: That's
actually a great point.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD: Reach out
to at least one other person.
And when you read
the book "Birth 2012,"
there's a whole website--
Of organizations that
you can reach out to
Birth2012.com,
can reach out to.
And we're recommending that
people form small circles.
That's a great way to start.
So two or more, you
can form a circle.
And if you meet like once a
week or once every two weeks,
you can put your
name on the website
and you will meet other
people who are forming
circles around the world.
LISA GARR: Oh, that's great.
That's great.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD:
And we have conference
calls for all the circles.
Oh.
And what happens is--
So that's the way to
connect it all together.
You're not alone.
But what it does take to
become this kind of human,
I call it a pioneering soul.
Think of the pioneers that
came over in the covered
wagons in the United
States of America,
there was nobody to help them.
But they had courage.
I think we're in a time where
we need social pioneering.
We need to be
spiritual pioneers.
It's not that somebody is
going to just drop down
and help all of this happen.
Who's going to do it?
Is this the social synergy that
you talk about in your book?
This is going to be
that yes, that courage
through the heart, that finding
each other, that joining
the websites of all these other
people-- and Birth2012.com
is one of many websites like
that-- and then social synergy.
The next step I recommend
to people who form circles
is to reach out into
their community for people
in all these fields like
health, education, economics,
environment, and
bring them together
to look for common goals and
match the needs of one group
with the resources of the other.
Like a communications
media group
would join with an
education group would join
with an environmental
group, because no function,
like health or education or
economics, can do it alone.
No project all on
its own can do it.
So that's a great point right.
So joining two or more,
connect with others,
find out what attracts
you, say yes, go for it.
LISA GARR: This is the
formula right here.
Go for it.
LISA GARR: This is the
formula for becoming
an evolutionary human.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD: And
when you say yes enough,
you'll find it for sure others.
LISA GARR: Absolutely.
But you have to be courageous
enough to say how you feel.
Even if you're in a workplace
where people don't seem to get
it, if you say
something like, I just
feel like there's something more
that wants to happen for me.
If you say it without
criticizing others,
you know what will happen?
For sure there is somebody
else who feels this way.
And you are going to become what
I call an evolutionary leader.
This is really a light
up the people on Facebook.
One of our listeners is saying
that their workplace, they
find that people are-- it's
not a professional conversation
to have.
And they're considered
to "woo woo"
if they have this conversation
in their work environment.
How did they find people
who are like minded
in their work environment?
What I say about that is you
learn to be able to communicate
without disarranging everybody.
You don't get up
and make a speech.
LISA GARR: So you don't run your
agenda through every one else.
You don't.
You say how you feel.
You ask if anybody
else feels this.
You become attractive.
And the way you
become attractive
is if you're attracted
to something inside you.
You can be sure that others
want to feel that way.
LISA GARR: That is true.
And that is the quickest way
to get out of a depression
or current situation that is
even painful and devastating
is to chunk up like this.
Another thing about the
workplace, some of the best
pioneers in this are
consultants in business,
like Otto Sharma
with the U Theory.
He'll take business,
corporate leaders.
And they get together.
And then they go down this
U into a deeper space.
And then they get in touch
with their own essence.
And they start
meeting each other
in a sacred and safe space.
Then they go up
the U. And they're
in the business environment
again, but they've changed.
So you've created various
hubs around the globe that are
in this conversation already.
I am.
I have.
And what's happened is I'm
always now in this conversation
because I've been
fortunate enough to say yes
to my own personal
vocation, to find others,
and to find the
time on the planet
is awakening millions of us to
realize just more of the same
will not work.
LISA GARR: What do
you find challenging
about spreading this word?
Where do you get
confrontation around this?
People will say,
well, I don't think
it will make any difference.
Or things have gone too far,
and what makes you think you
can possibly make a difference?
And it won't work.
LISA GARR: And what
do you say to that?
I say that the only thing
that can make a difference
is you and I and
all of us saying,
yes, we're going to do our best.
And having other people
in this conversation.
And joining and reaching out.
So that's why I'm suggesting
everyone have the courage
to be yes and share it.
And you learn how
to communicate.
You know when I first
started to communicate this.
I used to be
completely repulsive.
I said too much, too fast.
And nobody wanted to hear it.
So I got the feedback.
Try to be a little
bit more engaging.
So you learned,
very interesting.
You are now still in the
political arena, aren't you?
With the conversations
that you're
having behind the scenes, more
so with our leaders right now,
right?
I'm having as many
conversations as I can.
And recently, I did meet with
Vice President Joe Biden.
And he was talking
about all the crises.
And I said, Mr. Vice president,
I have a suggestion for you.
What's that? he says.
LISA GARR: Here
comes Barbara again.
I said, why don't you try
to find out what's working
in America and communicate it.
And this is Joe Biden.
His face lit up.
And he started to talk
about what's working.
And he said an
interesting thing.
The president cannot
look optimistic,
because he would be criticized
for not understanding
the pain of others.
But the vice
president could do it.
So this is just one out of
many things that I'm doing.
But basically, we have a
welcoming committee in here,
people like Jack Canfield, Neale
Donald Walsch, Jean Houston,
Lynn McTaggart, Lynn Twist.
We are identifying
leaders of the new world.
It's not so much leaders
of the old world.
And I think they're holding the
fort for the new to show up.
LISA GARR: Yes.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD:
I don't think
you can do it at the
top of the pyramid,
like in the presidency.
LISA GARR: Like
it's being done now.
Or the head of an
organized religion.
It's hard because it's a pyramid
structure, which is top down.
It's designed that way.
And it built civilization.
But it can't evolve it.
So we're going into
a more holistic,
not only personal health,
but social holistic
planetary holism.
It's interesting that
you said personal health,
because there is a health
care crisis in America.
And there are so many different
levels that you could look at.
And in terms of crisis,
and I know that you speak
to these leaders on a
regular basis, which I think
is fantastic that they're
having conversations
with you, our current
political leaders,
about conscious evolution.
-They are.
And I feel that
it's a new movement.
We had in the 60s
the peace movement,
the Civil Rights Movement,
the woman's right movement,
the consciousness movement.
They all have grown and matured.
But something new is happening.
At the growing age
of every one of those
is the sense of something
emerging that's new.
And what's new comes out of the
connection of our creativity.
That's true.
That is what you're doing.
Well, you have been honored
with so many different awards.
There is one that I know the
Reverend Michael Beckwith just
gave you in terms of
a lifetime achievement
award, which is so due to you.
I know you're still just
getting started, aren't you?
I call it that this
regenopause actually
gives you more vitality.
So at 82, I actually feel newer.
Oh, my goodness, what an
inspiration that truly is.
Take a look at the clip that
we have with Barbara receiving
the lifetime achievement award.
[VIDEO PLAYING]
You're so idealistic,
Barbara, look at human nature.
How could you imagine
that we could change?
So my answer always
is, could you
tell me how we got from
subatomic particles to you
and me now?
I found that every
time the whole system
is hit with a crisis that
couldn't be resolved by doing
more of the same,
there was a jump
in consciousness and freedom
through more complex order.
And I was able to put humanity
in the 14 billion year story
and recognize that it's the
first time in the 14 billion
years that any species was
caught in a quantum jump
and became conscious,
that by their own actions
they could change it
or destroy themselves.
And if we got from
subatomic particles
to here through
all these crises,
my absolute faith is that it
couldn't turn off with us.
There's absolutely no way that
the force of creation that
brought us would turn off just
exactly when the species is
becoming conscious of the
force and of the design
of the process of creation, such
that we can co-create with it.
And in my language,
what's happening on Earth
is that millions of us are
giving birth within ourselves
to a universal human.
Every person who supra-sexually,
that means your creativity
is aroused at the
very same passion
that we created and
reproduced our species,
we are going to express
that procreative love
into a co-creative love.
And every one of
us is imbued with
a tremendous,
creative expression
that is yearning to go out.
It's the time for the
feminine to give birth
to the authentic feminine self.
I asked for a word to symbolize
what was happening to me.
And the word I received
was regenopause.
Because when the feminine
self lives long enough
to be expressing that divine
feminine in partnership
with men but fully liberated
to go the whole way,
she becomes the missing
link of our species.
And we're not going to save this
world by guilt and fear alone.
We're going to save this
world by the passion
to join our genius to create.
[END PLAYBACK]
LISA GARR: That is great.
That is great.
I want to applaud.
You're so inspirational.
You represent so
much with your story.
And I'm so glad we
had the opportunity
to go through your
story with you
today, which I don't see very
often that you have the time
to even talk about
because you're
talking about our next steps.
So thank you so much
for joining me today
for the inspiration that
you are and for all that
you have served with us.
And you're still going.
Thank you, Lisa.
And I want everyone to
know that their story
is part of the big story.
LISA GARR: Yes,
that's a great point.
That's the truth.
Everybody is needed to
be part of that shift
toward a planetary evolution.
-Yes.
Oh, thank you so much.
-Thank you, Lisa.
-You're wonderful.
Thanks for being here today.
And thank you so
much for watching.
If you want to watch a
replay of my interview
with Barbara Marx Hubbard,
if you want to share it
with your friends,
go to GaiamTV.com
for a lot more thought
provoking interviews,
as well there's inspiration
films and so much more.
Please sign up for a free
trial of GaiamTV.com right now.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
BARBARA MARX HUBBARD: I will.
LISA GARR: OK, good.
[MUSIC PLAYING]